avoid this email marketing strategy at
all costs email marketing is super
effective as they say the money is in
the list
I routinely send out emails with the
average open rate of over 30 percent
which is Amazing by industry standards
and the average Roi for email campaign
well it's pretty spectacular the average
return is 36 dollars for every dollar
spent and it can go way higher than that
if you're doing everything correctly and
if you're doing things poorly you're not
really going to see any Roi at all but
that's why you're watching this video
because we're going to make sure you're
doing things right so what's the biggest
mistake
this is the one that I see almost every
single time that just really crushes the
email strategy it's not scrubbing your
list okay think of it this way you gotta
email us it doesn't matter if you have
100 people on your email list or a
million
you got a list you send them emails some
people naturally want to open your
emails some people don't do you know
what happens if you keep sending emails
to the portion of your list that doesn't
want to open up the emails well let me
give you a real life example all right
so when I first started email marketing
I ended up growing my list to a little
bit more than 28 000 contacts and this
is with one of my earlier blocks and the
blog was also on marketing it was called
quicksprout when I was at 28 000 emails
my open rate went from 20 plus percent
to down to 15 and it started going all
the way down to 10 I was like why I'm
continually getting new subscribers why
is my open rate continually going down
it was because I was sending emails to
people who didn't want them but you're
probably thinking Neil if you're sending
emails to people who didn't want them
there are still people who want the
email and those people open it up right
that's what you would think but it
doesn't always work that way see Outlook
and Gmail and other email platforms they
have their own algorithms and what they
do is let's say if I'm sending an email
to a thousand people if a hundred of
them don't ever open up my email but
there's 900 that sometimes do open up my
emails
eventually those 100 people who are
opening up the emails it actually taints
the other 900. here's what I mean even
though they're not connected the way the
algorithm works is oh you keep sending
these emails these 100 people who don't
want them so your email is more likely
to be spam so even those other 900
people are engaging every once in a
while some of those emails that you sent
to those 900 people will end up in their
Spam box or their promotions have even
if they didn't click the spam button or
the promotion button in other words you
need to make sure that you're only
sending emails to people who are
engaging or else the people who do want
your emails in a lot of cases they won't
see your emails and not only will your
open rates go down but your overall
clicks and opens will go down from a
total number because when you scrub your
list you're deleting the records of the
people who never engage in theory that
causes your open rates to go up but more
importantly it's not just a percentage
you want the total number of opens and
the total number of clicks of people
clicking on the email to go to your
website to increase even if your list
size is smaller so what you need to do
is constantly scrub your list different
email tools have different ways of doing
this I use convertkit so in convertkit
for example
it'll segment out in a rolling 30 days
all the cold subscribers cold means
people who haven't engaged in the last
30 days so what do I do with those
people I delete them now some people
like putting them on a re-engagement
campaign where you only send out emails
to those cold subscribers and try to get
them to re-engage maybe send them an
irresistible offer you can do that as
well I highly recommend that but what we
do because most of our emails are
already really good and we offer way
more value than really selling anything
actually at all so what we do is we tend
to delete them because we found for us
re-engagement campaigns aren't as
effective as it may be for more
businesses because 95 of our emails
provide value and don't sell anything
well with most people maybe 30 of the
emails are selling people and 70 is
providing value so we don't have the
same issue but for most people you would
want to do a re-engagement campaign to
those cold people send them something
irresistible and then for the ones that
are still cold and don't care delete
those the others that started to
re-engage put them back into your main
list that's how you ensure that you keep
getting amazing opens amazing amazing
clicks and your emails get delivered in
people's inbox that's how you succeed
with email marketing
now if you need help with your email
marketing check out my Ad Agency NP
digital if you enjoyed this video like
it share it tell the people about it
thank you for watching